
Type conversion is the conversion of one data type into another data type.
In C, type conversion can be classified into two types:

1. Implicit Type Conversion :
Implicit type conversion is performed by the compiler without programmer intervention.
In implicit type conversion, the compiler automatically converts one data type into another data type.
For example, if you assign an integer value to a floating-point variable, the compiler automatically converts the integer into a float.
Implicit type conversion is also known as automatic type conversion.

2.Explicit Type Conversion:
Explicit type conversion is performed by the programmer.
In explicit type conversion, the programmer manually converts one data type into another data type.
Explicit type conversion is also known as type casting.
Type casting is a way to convert a variable from one data type to another data type.

In C, type casting can be done in two ways:

1. Using the cast operator :
The cast operator is denoted by a pair of parentheses enclosing the data type to which the variable is to be converted.
The syntax for using the cast operator is as follows:
(data_type) expression
Here, data_type is the data type to which the variable is to be converted, and expression is the variable to be converted.
For example, to convert an integer variable x into a float, you can use the following syntax:
float y = (float) x;
In this example, the integer variable x is converted into a float using the cast operator.

2. Using the conversion functions :
In C, there are several conversion functions available that can be used to convert one data type into another data type.
The following are some of the conversion functions available in C:
1. atoi() - converts a string to an integer
2. atof() - converts a string to a float
3. atol() - converts a string to a long integer
4. itoa() - converts an integer to a string
5. ltoa() - converts a long integer to a string
6. dtoa() - converts a double to a string
7. strtol() - converts a string to a long integer
8. strtoul() - converts a string to an unsigned long integer
9. strtod() - converts a string to a double
10. strtol() - converts a string to a long integer
11. strtoul() - converts a string to an unsigned long integer
12. strtod() - converts a string to a double
13. strtol() - converts a string to a long integer
14. strtoul() - converts a string to an unsigned long integer
15. strtod() - converts a string to a double
16. strtol() - converts a string to a long integer
17. strtoul() - converts a string to an unsigned long integer
18. strtod() - converts a string to a double
19. strtol() - converts a string to a long integer
20. strtoul() - converts a string to an unsigned long integer
21. strtod() - converts a string to a double
22. strtol() - converts a string to a long integer
23. strtoul() - converts a string to an unsigned long integer
24. strtod() - converts a string to a double
25. strtol() - converts a string to a long integer
26. strtoul() - converts a string to an unsigned long integer
27. strtod() - converts a string to a double
28. strtol() - converts a string to a long integer
29. strtoul() - converts a string to an unsigned long integer
30. strtod() - converts a string to a double
31. strtol() - converts a string to a long integer
32. strtoul() - converts a string to an unsigned long integer
33. strtod() - converts a string to a double
34. strtol() - converts a string to a long integer
35. strtoul() - converts a string to an unsigned long integer
36. strtod() - converts a string to a double
37. strtol() - converts a string to a long integer
38. strtoul() - converts a string to an unsigned long integer
39. strtod() - converts a string to a double
40. strtol() - converts a string to a long integer
41. strtoul() - converts a string to an unsigned long integer
42. strtod() - converts a string to a double
43. strtol() - converts a string to a long integer
44. strtoul() - converts a string to an unsigned long integer
45. strtod() - converts a string to a double
46. strtol() - converts a string to a long integer
47. strtoul() - converts a string to an unsigned long integer
48. strtod() - converts a string to a double
49. strtol() - converts a string to a long integer
50. strtoul() - converts a string to an unsigned long integer

In this example, we will use the cast operator to convert an integer variable into a float.
